every mental health complication or
diagnosis is increasing and I've worked
with different scientists [music] and
done a lot of experimentation on myself
having grown up with multiple depressive
episodes every year to see if [music]
there are root causes that we can
address and so I'll just throw out a few
things that have been very very helpful
first there's brain stimulation when I
did this I had months of no anxiety then
there's something called Vegas nerve
stimulation and one of the most heavily
cited scientists of the last 30 years
has seen a wild collection of benefits
So, let's talk about that.
>> Tim Ferris has become a performance
hacking expert after speaking with over
800 influential voices on his podcast.
[music]
>> Now, he's taking the most valuable
frameworks and techniques to help you
optimize productivity, health, and
[music] performance. Tim, the variety of
things that you write about, talk about
is so wide. So, what is the question
that most people should ask you?
>> How do you break down complicated
subjects and accelerate your ability to
learn? because time is one of our most
valuable non-renewable resources. And so
I have a framework that you can apply to
any subject matter which consists of the
80/20 principle which is picking the 20%
to focus on that will give you 80% of
what you want. For instance, there's
hundreds of thousands of words you could
learn in Spanish. But with the most
frequently used500, you can get to
reasonable conversational fluency in
almost any language in 8 to 12 weeks.
And if you figure that out, you're ahead
of 99.9% of the world. And what do you
think is the question most people want
to ask you?
>> So there's a lot of questions around
mental health and I feel like I have a
moral obligation to help people because
I was uh sexually abused by a
babysitter's son on a weekly basis. I
was this close to killing myself. And it
can have a lot of effects, but these are
things that you can slowly chip away at.
and instead of feeling like you're held
captive by them, feel like you can take
the [music] pain and make it part of
your medicine.
>> So,
I see messages all the time in the
comments section that some of you didn't
realize you didn't subscribe. So,
[snorts] if you could do me a favor and
double check if you're a subscriber to
this channel, that would be tremendously
appreciated. It's the simple, it's the
free thing that anybody that watches
this show frequently can do to help us
here to keep everything going in this
show in the trajectory it's on. So,
please do double check if you've
subscribed and uh thank you so much
because in a strange way you are you're
part of our history and you're on this
journey with us and I appreciate you for
that. So, yeah, thank you
[music]
Tim.
You're a remarkably interesting
individual in part because the variety
of things that you write about, talk
about clearly have deep curiosity in is
so wide that you're you're hard to to
put into any particular box. So I my
first question to you is how do you
think about the work you do and how do
you sort of like self-define if you do
at all who you are and what your mission
is. I think of myself as a
self-experimenttor
student and teacher in that order. The
purpose though ultimately is to try to
find simplicity through complexity or
topics that can be complicated and then
provide some type of recipe or algorithm
that people can test with low risk and
hopefully a decent amount of upside.
>> We're going to talk about a lot of
different things today. So it probably a
good place to start which is learning
how to learn and especially in a world
that's changing at such speed. There's a
lot of people that are being forced into
relearning of some sort whether it's
professionally or in other domains. So
metalarning, I've never heard this term
before.
>> Mhm.
>> How how do what is metalarning and how
do I learn how to learn better? I would
love to cuz I spend so long as you do
speaking to really interesting people
>> and I sometimes worry that some of that
information is being wasted.
>> Yeah. The basic idea is this that rather
than treat different
subjects or fields as these silos that
need to be figured out independently,
how can you develop just a broad
framework that you can apply to any
subject matter? And the acronym that I
generally recommend folks, DSS,
deconstruction, selection, sequencing,
stakes. There's deconstruction, which is
taking a
fairly ambiguous goal like learn to swim
or learn Japanese.
None of those are actually very
descriptive, right? So deconstructing
any one of those is taking let's just
use the learn to swim as an example and
breaking it down into constituent parts
right and you can you can do that very
effectively with the help of an expert
you can try to do it yourself but for
instance I mean if you want to find a
silver medalist from the Olympics two
Olympics ago you can probably get on a
Zoom call with them for
$100 an hour maybe $50 an hour like you
do have access to world class talent.
>> Then they would help you figure out all
right there all these different possible
components. When you get to the next
part which is selection, you're picking
the 20%. This is the 8020 principle,
right? Prao's law. So you're picking the
20% that will give you 80% of what you
want. Let's just use language learning
in that case. Well, you can very easily
find word frequency lists. So for any
given language like Spanish, sure, or in
English, hundreds of thousands of words
you could learn. But with the most
frequently used 1500,
you can get to reasonable conversational
fluency in almost any language in 8 to
12 weeks without question if you
approach it methodically. But you need
the right material first. And then the
next S is sequencing. Putting it in the
right order. And I feel like this is the
magic sauce that gets lost a lot, which
is what is a logical sequence for
learning any given skill. What do you
practice first? So in the case of
swimming for instance, forget about
breathing. Like you need to figure out
like fuselage right, fuselage left, and
gliding, kicking off a wall in the
shallow end of a pool before you ever
think about breathing
>> and getting comfortable putting your
head under water, etc., etc. So, so
there's the deconstruction, selection,
sequencing, and then the last S stands
for stakes, which means incentives. So,
how do you ensure that you will do
actually what it is you say you're
committing to doing? If more information
were the answer, we'd all be
billionaires with six pack abs. So,
information is clearly not sufficient.
It's necessary, but not sufficient.
Incentives drive behavior change. So,
you need good intentions are not enough.
Even a system is not enough. You need
strong incentives. So, right, you could
give uh 500 bucks to a friend or 100
bucks, whatever. Does the amount doesn't
really matter. And if you don't do what
you say you're going to do, they donate
it to like your most hated political
candidate in your name, right? That's
another one that I've seen work really
well. That's it. That DSS,
deconstruction, selection, sequencing,
stakes. And if you just check those
boxes moving that order,
uh, your ability to learn will hockey
stick in a really meaningful way. And
what's also important to realize when
you're trying to tackle any new skill,
doesn't matter what it is.
There will, it will not be just a linear
climb from, you know, bottom, left,
upper, right. But if you know in advance
that those are coming, then you can have
a plan for it and weather the storm. So
that's also very important. If people
expect some kind of like linear
incremental progress, it just ain't
going to happen. And so most people quit
before they hit any real inflection
points.
>> And how does one know what to pursue?
Like how do you decide what's worth
pursuing? Is there a framework for
knowing what should be on the Sunday
shelf and what should be today today's
work?
>> I do think about this a lot and I've
used this for a very very long time and
I don't see it changing anytime soon. I
refined it here and there. Almost
everything I do is a 6 to 12 month
project.
with lots of 2 to four week experiments
within that 6 to 12 months. I do not
have and I've never had a long-term
career plan 5 years, 10 years. If you
have a reliable 5 to 10 year plan,
you're going to be playing so safely
within the bounds of your capabilities
that I feel like you're selling yourself
short. So for me, it's projects and just
going 100% into those projects. But how
do you pick the project? I pick the
projects based on relationships and
skills. So new relationships or
deepening important relationships and my
learning curve skills I'm going to learn
and there's a condition though those
relationships and those skills have to
be able to transcend that project. I'll
give you an example. If I have a project
which is working on a startup as an
adviser that startup was stumble upon.
Okay so I'm working on Stumble Upon. Way
back in the day Stumble Upon was a huge
deal. It delivered a lot of web traffic
to various websites. It's kind of like a
Pandora for websites. A year or two into
that didn't go anywhere. But who was it?
I spent all my time with it. Stumbled
upon. It was the founder named Garrett
Camp and I became really close friends.
I learned a ton about web traffic. I was
also able to use my own website and blog
as a experimental destination. Right? So
there was upside even if it went to zero
for me. And few years later I get a text
from Garrett. we meet up to talk about
this new idea which is solving the taxi
problem in San Francisco. And then
shortly thereafter it was called Uber
Cab LLC and I became advised to that.
And I could give you 12 more examples
like that where like the first project
failed but I became friends with with
person A or B learned C and D and those
were applied two projects later to
something that was a home run. And
should everybody at every stage in their
journey have the same brainwork or you
know because if you think about the
different things one could acquire from
like resources, reputation, knowledge,
skills,
>> um network.
>> If I'm 18 and broke, should I be aiming
at the same things as if I'm Tim
Ferrris?
>> My instinct is to say yes.
>> And the reason I say that is that Lady
Fortune has a lot to say about what
happens. There are so many things
outside of your control that whatever
game you choose to play [sighs]
requires a system that allows you to
survive a a string of very bad luck.
Everything snowballs over time and
compounds and it's really hard to lose
long term as long as you're not
overindexing and betting too much on any
one project say financially.
It's
>> like you need to be able to withstand as
a team or as an individual a period of
very bad luck
>> in order for the law of big numbers and
statistics to work in your favor with a
system that gives you a slight edge. Um
so that's just my lens on the world in
general
at least professional choices and I
would say you mentioned a couple of
other things right like reputation and
so on. I feel like a lot of those are
second order effects. They happen
automatically if you are optimizing for
the relationships and skills.
>> So, uh this comes back to the
sequencing, right? So, it's like which
which is the lead domino. So, if you
have 12 dominoes, you kind of have to
decide in which order you're going to
stack them so that you knock over the
small domino, knock over the bigger
domino, then the bigger, then the
bigger, then the bigger. And over time,
if you're thinking about doing two
projects a year, let's just say if
they're 6 months each,
>> that's going to add up. It's going to
add up. So, you can afford to be
long-term greedy
instead of short-term greedy.
>> Is that what people call passion? Is are
you using the same
>> I uh I like energy over passion for a
couple of reasons? Because you could
have passion between the bed sheets. You
could have the passion of the Christ.
You had a different type of passion. I
don't like imprecise terms. Energy for
me, very simple. It's like, are you more
awake or are you sleepy? Right?
[laughter]
Do you feel like you can do this for
another 5 hours? Do you feel like you
want to stop in 15 minutes? These are
almost biological questions, like
biological state questions. So, it's
it's pretty intuitive for people to get
to a yes or no.
One of the subjects I've been thinking a
lot about recently, why have I been
thinking about this more recently? Don't
know, just a series of conversations
I've had on the show which make have
kind of pushed me closer to trying to
answer this question is about
about meaning and purpose and I guess
religion because actually it's only in
recent history that we've had so many
answers to some of these bloody
questions like the the solar eclipse. We
now know what's going on there. It's not
God testing us. So the the Vikings are
throwing like their spears at it. We
know what it is now. So not believing
atheism, agnosticism, is that a fairly
new construct? And are we not meant to
know so much? [laughter]
>> Well, I I think that humans need
certainty. They need something to
believe. And if your belief is that
non-belief is the way, well, guess what?
I mean, that's a belief,
>> right?
>> Okay. So I would say that my experience
is if you want to experience
self transcendence which I think is
critical for mental health you don't
need religion per se.
What you you can have I think a very
wonderful life without religion. I don't
think it's possible to have a wonderful
life without awe and wonder. And those
are things you can architect.
Those are things you can very much
architect and engineer and schedule in
your life. Why have veganism and
CrossFit done so well? They're
religions.
I mean, effectively, they may not have a
god, per se.
>> Yeah.
>> But certainly they have thought leaders,
they, you know, glassmen before his fall
from grace
and so on. Uh various athletes and so
on. But it's like clear rules,
community, self-inforcing
and
>> describing life sports.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's like this is religion
just goes by another name. It's a lot of
the behaviors, collective behaviors and
tenants of religion just lacking the
rword.
>> What you worship?
>> Yeah, I knew that was coming. Yeah, you
>> uh I think the risk for me is that I
feel like I have a moral obligation to
help people which can turn into a bit of
a savior complex because of a lot of the
pain that I've suffered in the past. Uh
I feel like I am not necessarily
uniquely suited, but I have the the
experience and the perspective that
allows me to be credible when talking to
people who are experiencing certain
types of pain. And that can become a
huge unhelpful self-imposed burden where
I feel a moral obligation to do things
at the expense of my own mental health
or physical health. So I would say
that's something that I have very
clearly on my radar as of a few years
ago. Uh
>> when did the first domino fall in that
regard?
>> In terms of uh you mean just general
challenges personally? Uh well, I was uh
might as well dig into it. So I I was uh
sexually abused by a babysitter's son
from 2 to four on a weekly basis, I
would say. Very clear memories of all of
it. And that will shape you. I mean,
that will definitely shape you. And it
can have a lot of effects. It can rob
you of agency. it can certainly make you
or contribute to me being hypervigilant.
I'm very slow to trust and
so on and so forth, right? like that is
a formative experience at a formative
time and
then later
had I think number one a genetic
predisposition if you just look at my
family to major depressive disorder
and
that showed up as let's call it on
average starting in early adolescence
like three to four
multi-week or multimonth depressive
episodes per
That is
half of your lived time. And
for people who may have experienced
something like this,
I will say that there are tools at work.
So now, never thought it would be
possible, but I would say now I have one
depressive episode of a few weeks at
most every 2 to 3 years.
Now the juxtaposition between those two
people is hard to overstate, right?
Those are those are two fundamentally
different experiences of being a human.
>> And um a lot of it ties back to some of
the levers I was talking about, right?
Metabolic psychiatry, psychedelic
assisted therapy,
bioelectric medicine, including
accelerated TMS. Like these things for
certain people really work and can be
durable. They're not one and done. Very
few things are, but uh these are things
that you can slowly chip away at and
become familiar with and
instead of feeling like you're held
captive by them, feel like
you can mold the experience into
something that is at least not
disabling.
>> Sometimes you can make it enabling. I
remember a psy very good psychotherapist
said to me maybe five years ago, six
years ago,
take the pain and make it part of your
medicine. And it was basically like all
that stuff is horrible. Nothing can
excuse it. Take that pain and made it
make it part of what you offer the
world. And there was I would say the
combination of that statement and also
COVID during which my girlfriend at the
time because she knew about my history
very few at that time there were maybe
two people in the world who knew about
it.
>> Wow.
>> Two long-term ex-girlfriends I'd been
with for like five to six years each and
>> parents didn't know parents
>> didn't know. Really?
>> Yeah. And
I was sitting with her during COVID just
as it was getting fully ramped.
[laughter]
And
I had always planned on writing a book
about it or like my healing journey
after my parents passed away cuz I
didn't want them to blame themselves.
And my girlfriend at the time over a
meal said something that had a huge
impact, which was, "Have you ever
thought about how many people are going
to pass away from natural causes or from
COVID or anything else before you ever
have a chance to write this book?" Cuz
you're probably not going to write that
book for 10, 15 years.
>> Think of all the people you could have
helped that you didn't help. And I was
like, "Okay, maybe I should workshop it
on a podcast." But keep in mind, none of
my family knew.
And so I was very fortunate to have a
very close friend who's based here in
New York City, Debbie Milman, Design
Matters Podcast, one of the longest
running podcasts in the world, wonderful
human. And she disclosed to me a number
of years back for the first time in full
fidelity
extended childhood sexual abuse. and we
talked about it
and I came clean with her after that
conversation with my girlfriend and I
asked her if she would be open to having
a conversation with me that we could
record but as a conversation because I
knew I couldn't do it as a monologue. I
just knew I couldn't do it and I told
her in advance I said I have no idea if
I'm ever going to share this but I feel
I feel compelled to at least record it.
And so we did and ended up publishing
that I want to say in September 2020,
something like that. And uh holy [__] I
would say the most shocking thing about
that to me. I knew the statistics,
right? But statistics are very
impersonal. Like these these these types
of abuse, this type of sexual abuse is
incredibly prevalent. not just
uh involving young girls but also
involving a lot of young boys. I
probably had a quarter to a third of my
close close friends reach out to me for
the first time to talk to anyone and
confess that they had had some type of
similar experience. I I mean the
percentages were staggering.
Um that was really hard. Um I was
willing to absorb it. I have a lot of
capacity for absorbing that type of
thing, but it was hard because I would
get these tearful voice memos from guys
who had never told anyone, giving me
graphic details of everything that
happened. It's just gut-wrenching. I
mean, I remember walking up and down my
driveway just like tears running down my
face and like I don't cry much. that's
not really a thing for me, but just the
brutality of it
and uh then in retrospect
seeing so many things coales where I'm
like oh that explains all of these
unanswered questions I had about that
friend and also for me looking back
again hindsight being 2020 for a long
time I had let's just call it to pick a
number out of thin air it's like okay I
have seven mental health psycho
emotional challenges I need to address
and I was viewing them as independent
problems to address. But when I was
willing to reopen the door and look at
the childhood abuse, everything was tied
to that.
And
sometimes you just have to, you know,
put on your gas mask and go into the
cellar and contend with that. And
there's no one right way to do it.
Psychiatry is still in the dark ages.
It's where surgery was 300 years ago.
But still there are certain things that
work often without knowing the mechanism
seem to help a lot of people. So there
there are tools I think internal family
systems created by Dick Schwarz is very
interesting. The MDMA assisted
psychotherapy certainly for PTSD very
interesting and generally well tolerated
not right for everybody. And then a
number of the other things that I
mentioned uh family constellation
therapy also quite helpful for a lot of
people but
uh it's not insurmountable.
What I would not say is that some people
and I think that I would love to be able
to do this but I just can't get there or
who would say like I don't regret it.
I'm glad it happened because here's the
silver lining. No. Like if I could
control Z and remove that stuff 100% I
would I mean it did a lot of damage but
it gives me a credible voice when I am
talking to people who have had these
experiences and that is valuable.
>> Can you explain to me what you've
learned about how how you were 2 years
old at the time.
>> Yeah.
>> Between the age of two and four you
said.
>> What what is I'm I'm kind of asking
about the mechanism here. what is
happening in a 2 to four year old
child's brain
that causes the damage cuz presumably at
2 years old you don't understand what's
happening. You don't understand what
this individual this person who's older
than you is doing and the context of it.
>> Yeah.
>> So I'm I'm I'm trying to understand how
what the mechanism of harm is to a to an
innocent child who doesn't understand
understand the context of what's going
on here.
>> Yeah. I I don't think anyone can really
answer that particularly well with high
conviction. But what what I'll say is
that
uh I am blessed and cursed with a near
photographic memory for some things.
>> Mhm. [clears throat] So you have the
original
injury, you have the original insult,
>> but if you have, as I do, which is
weird, but like I can draw the floor
plan of almost any building, any
restaurant I've ever been in,
>> that's crazy.
>> Even once, I don't know why that is, but
I can do that. Now, there are upsides to
that. There are a lot of downsides, too,
in the case of abuse.
And
as you have greater and greater
ability to navigate the world and
realize what has happened, what is
happening, what might happen, and you
can recontextualize
highfidelity memories.
Well, then you realize
that that thing that was very weird at
the time was a lot more than just weird,
right? It was just straight exploitation
and abuse. So
that's the best answer I think I can
give to that question.
>> It's similar to what Lisa, Dr. Lisa
Feldman told me. She's a neuroscientist
who said she told me this story. It's
obviously an anecdote, so it's an N of
one. Um, so obviously taken with
caution, but she she told me the story
of a young woman who was abused by her
uncle
and um lived a normal life. Everything
was fine, slept well,
>> then watched Oprah
>> and Oprah had on there an array of women
that were abused
>> when they were younger
>> and she recontextualized what happened
to her and from that day onwards she had
all the symptoms of someone who was
abused. She was had sleep disruption,
health disruption, all these things.
Yeah.
>> Because she had suddenly, as you used
that term, reconceptualized actually
what had happened there.
>> Yeah.
>> It's made, you know,
>> Yeah. I mean, look, I think people who
have been abused are
those who survive and do well afterwards
in some way are become very good by
force, by necessity at
compartmentalizing.
And uh if you look at some of the very
very top tier military
um
special forces units and so on, the
percentages of those guys who have been
abused very high. Now, why why would
that be an asset? Well, if you're in
battle,
if you're in a chaotic environment where
people are dying or at risk of dying
and
you need to act effectively and calmly
in the most
disruptive, unpredictable environment
imaginable. Compartmentalizing is a
superpower, right? where you can
basically detach and take this observer
status almost as if you're watching
yourself
doing, you know, kill and capture raids
or whatever it might be.
>> Uh
but when some of those folks come back
to civilian life, the
compartmentalization is a severe
handicap and disruptor in family life,
right? So that superpower becomes a
super weakness.
And I think that that is true outside of
the military [clears throat] for people
who survive abuse. They may bury it
completely, put it under lock and key
subconsciously. So they don't even have
explicit recall of the event until
perhaps there's some trig triggering
catalyst that brings it back up. They
might just say, "Hey, look, that
happened. It's terrible. Like no need to
dwell on the past. I want to move
forward." which I think frankly is a
viable
strategy. I don't think everyone needs
to go, you know, put on their hazmat
suit and unearth everything bad that has
ever happened to them. I don't think
that is automatically productive or
helpful. Uh can make people really
despondent
because you can't fix the past, right?
Mhm.
>> Uh so I would say that in in my case
that compartmentalization
was uh on some levels very enabling,
right? Like I could outlast out endure
a lot of people in sports, in work. My
pain tolerance was incredibly high. Uh
but there's a there is a price to be
paid when you cauterize
certain aspects of yourself and disallow
certain types of emotions. Like there
are prices to be paid. And um I will say
that I think the
potential and promises of psychedelics
by and large are overstated.
But in terms of bringing emotions back
online,
that was almost entirely due to
psychedelic experiences for me.
>> Bringing emotions back online.
>> Yeah. So, I hadn't cried in like 20
years. Couldn't remember the last time I
cried. And then I'd be like on a plane
watching a really compelling kind of
heart-wrenching documentary and just
start crying on the plane. What the [__]
is going on [laughter] here? The [__]
And uh certain emotions just came back
online.
And I think that once those were online,
that is in part what then pulled along
with it, this revisiting of these
highfidelity memories. And then um
I had a very rough period because of
that and ultimately decided, you know
what, like this is the lead domino that
has already been tipped over that has
affected so many things. I can continue
to do patchwork
like remediation with band-aid solutions
for various things, but I'm just I'm
plugging holes in the side of the boat,
not asking why it's filling with water
in the first place. And I just decided,
you know what? I'm just going to take 6
months. And I know psychiatry is pretty
messy, but priority number one is to try
to find some resolution with this. And
that's what I did. I I canceled
everything because I was having
basically like a nervous breakdown and
wasn't sure I would be able to sort of
function in a business capacity anyway.
[gasps]
Um
so yeah, quite the adventure, quite the
misadventure, but you know, you play
your hand the best you can. Uh so having
a podcast, having the books, having a
blog has actually been incredibly
therapeutic for me in finding some way
to extract value from those experiences.
And let me just mention this because I
don't make anything from it. If people
are going through any experience like
this or if they've had a history of
trauma, uh you can just go to
tim.blog/trauma blog/trauma and it's got
the conversation with Debbie. It's a
hard conversation, but it also has a
list of resources because what I used as
a toolkit and what Debbie used are
completely different.
>> So, you get two very different
perspectives on things.
And uh I would say if I had to pick one
other blog post in this case that I am
was the hardest to put out and also that
I think I'm proudest of it would be some
practical thoughts on suicide. There's a
post called some practical thoughts on
suicide [gasps]
and um I know that has I know directly
that has saved a few hundred lives and
it it details my personal experience of
almost killing myself in college coming
very close like I had a date on the
calendar and the only reason it didn't
happen is because I lucked out this is
luck so at the time
I was taking a year off of uh college to
work in a few different jobs and ended
up being very isolated because my whole
class was graduating. My roommates at
the time had full-time jobs. So, I was
just kind of stuck at home working on my
senior thesis. Not a good recipe for
mental health. And
I reserved a book from the Princeton
University Library about assisted
suicide. And the book was out, popular
book it would seem. And back in the day,
the way the system worked is they would
mail you a physical postcard to your
address that was at the registars's
office. I had not updated my address to
my off-campus apartment. So, the card
that said, "Good news, your book on
assist suicide has arrived at Firestone
Library got mailed to my parents."
And that's what snapped me out of it was
realizing, "Oh, this isn't just about
me." right now. I don't have the
plausible deniability. I was going to
make it look like an accident. It's like
now I don't have it. That's been taken
away. Retrospect, thank God. And so, it
didn't happen. But the reason I wrote
that post is because I was at an event.
It's actually being interviewed by Jason
Calcanis on stage at this live this
weekend startups event.
Few hundred people in the audience and
stuck around afterwards and a bunch of
people came up and wanted books signed
and things like that. And there was one
really nice guy, well-dressed, had had
himself put together, who asked me to
sign two books, one for himself, and
then he asked me to sign a book for his
brother. And I said, "What would you
like me to say to your brother?" And he
just kind of froze. And I was like,
"Huh? Okay. Well, I don't want this guy
to feel stressed out." I was like, "I'll
tell you what, we can figure it out or
you can just leave it to me. There's no
rush. Like, we can do this after the
event." All right. Took care of
everybody else. And then the guy walked
me to the elevator and he explained, he
said, "Yeah, sorry about that. I froze
because my brother committed suicide
and we kept his room exactly how it
was." And he was a huge fan of your
writing. And so I wanted to get a book
signed by you and put it in his room.
And
he said, "Have you ever thought about
talking about mental health because you
could really help a lot of people? A lot
of people listen to you." And
unbeknownst to him, I had all the
history with coming this close to
killing myself.
And uh I sat with that and I was like,
"Yeah, he's right. He's really right. I
have a responsibility to write about
it." And that blog post took me at least
a month to write and rewrite and rewrite
and have proof read consider deleting.
And uh because that was also something
that my family didn't know about. I mean
they they knew about the book but they
didn't they didn't realize how close it
was. So
>> [snorts]
>> um that was also another
wonderful call with family to be like so
there's this thing about to come out.
[laughter]
Should probably give you a heads up so
you don't hear about it from everybody
in the extended family.
>> But uh
>> when your parents received that that
thing in the post y
>> that slip the library slip.
>> Yep.
>> Did they call you? My mom called me with
this very shaky voice being like, "What
is what is what is this? Why did you
reserve this book?" And I lied, you
know. I said, "Oh, well, I have a friend
at Ruters and he was trying to get this
book for a research project and they
didn't have it at their library, so he
asked me to get one from through
Firestone." But I was just lying. But I
knew the the jig was up, right? And uh
that was that was the turnaround point.
And that was also because this was in
1999 where I just decided to go 100%
into physical training.
U and there's a lot of backstory behind
it. People can read about it if they
want on that post. Some practical
thoughts about suicide. But
this is not it is so [__] common.
It's very disturbing like when you
realize it's disturbing and reassuring.
It's disturbing because you realize how
prevalent it is and how close so many
people have come. [sighs]
It's reassuring because you realize also
very quickly that you are not alone.
You're not uniquely flawed. This doesn't
need to be personal and permanent.
People have solved for this. Looking at
my audience over the last 10 years,
every mental health complication or
diagnosis that I can think of is up and
to the right. Just [snorts] hockey
stick. So, chronic anxiety, treatment
resistant depression,
you name it, right? Obesity, loneliness,
which can take many different forms,
usually self-imposed.
And
when I see a constellation of issues
like that, I try to identify if I can,
not just the symptoms because then you
end up putting band-aids on things that
are interrelated but treating them as
silos, but looking underneath it to see
if there are root causes that we can
address. So
let me speak to that first. So on the
mental health side, I'll just throw out
a few things that have been very very
helpful. [snorts] There are the
behavioral questions and I would agree
that
at its simplest level, you can just look
at what we're evolved for, right? Just
take a close look at evolutionary
biology. Independence lone wolf is not
in our programming. It just is not. So I
would say when in doubt
revert on some level to what people were
doing a few hundred years ago at the
most recent right
and
that would be sort of assumption number
one. Then I would say to people who are
suffering right now,
the social interaction, analog human
interaction, I would just say is the is
the the one target when hit that solves
a multitude of other problems that
otherwise you'll be playing whack-a-ole
with. But if there are then remaining
problems with say chronic anxiety, OCD
when we get into some slightly trickier
terrain, schizophrenia, borderline
personality disorder, etc. There are a
few things that I have found in the
course of doing a lot of work with
different scientists and also a lot of
experimentation on myself having
[clears throat]
grown up with multiple long duration
depressive episodes every year
and those are a short list of different
types of brain stimulation specifically
something called accelerated TMS. The
before and afters that I've seen with
that are beyond incredible and equal or
surpass in some cases the amplitude of
effect and the durability of effect of
psychedelic assisted therapies.
Accelerated TMS, so transcranial
magnetic stimulation. And Nolan
Williams, Dr. Nolan Williams at Stanford
is is a good person to look up for more
on that.
>> What exactly is that? Is that putting
something on your head? M
>> there are different ways to do it
depending on the hardware that you're
using but in effect accelerated TMS
refers to a new protocol with better
hardware and software of a technology
TMS that has existed probably for 40
years if not more on some level and you
will instead of doing two or three
sessions a week for many months you do
10 sessions a day for 5 days straight.
So you are getting stimulated on the
hour every hour for about 8 minutes
[gasps]
and you do that for 10 hours straight
and then you compound that over 5 days
and you see for instance uh to give one
example a friend's child very terrifying
story uh but uh he was
a cutter this this 14-year-old self
harming.
>> Yeah. And the parents were just waiting
for the call that their child had
committed suicide. And this went on for
two or three years, I want to say. And
then within 3 days of accelerated TMS
treatment, it was like reversion back to
old self. And then with boosters every
say 3 to 6 months, that has been
durable. It's the before and after is
impossible to overstate. It's pretty
wild.
>> What are they doing to the brain? Is it
electrodes or is it music or it's
>> magnet? It's magnets.
>> Magnets.
>> Yep. And the what it feels like is is
someone kind of like flicking the side
of your head. It's sort of the
sensation. It is from a safety profile
perspective really compelling. Like the
downside risk is very very minimal. And
me with the most recent sessions that
I've done myself, I had probably four to
five
months of no anxiety. Like all of that
stuff vanished as if by magic wand and I
felt like I'd been meditating twice a
day for a year. I mean it was it was
incomprehensible. Uh it was it was
really really really uh remarkable. And
there's there's good clinical evidence
for this. It's not just end of one
anecdote. So, so that's one is the kind
of neurostim piece and there's a lot
more that's going to happen in that
space. But bioelectric medicine, that
would be one big lever that I think is
worth investigating if people are
suffering with any number of different
conditions.
Then you have metabolic psychiatry.
Primarily that would be dietary
intervention. Chris Palmer at Harvard is
is someone who's popularized this in the
last handful of years. metabolic
psychiatry specifically putting people
on a ketogenic diet. You have folks who
have been treated with 15 different
medications for schizophrenia for a
decade who get off all of their
medications within 3 to 6 months and
stay off simply by
stabilizing a handful of things in the
brain including adding a very beautiful
clean energy source which is ketones.
There are also a lot of possible
applications of the ketogenic diet or
modified ketogenic diets, exogenous
ketones meaning supplemental ketones for
neurodeenerative disease. So I have
three relatives right now who have
Alzheimer's and genetically I'm very
predisposed. So I'm thinking a lot about
this also from a preventative
perspective. So can I potentially
bolster mitochondrial health,
cellular cleanup, reduction of plaque
buildup, etc. by doing strict ketosis
for a month a year, fasting for
a week, perhaps once a year, water only.
I think there's actually pretty
compelling evidence that those are all
worthwhile interventions to consider if
you're very highly predisposed as I am.
And then I would say the last one I'll
mention now the psychedelic assisted
therapies for various conditions. I do
think that psychedelics and this is to
quote a very famous psychotherapist
named Stannisl Grath Stan Grath what the
telescope did for astronomy what the
microscope did for biology psychedelics
will do for the mind. I don't think
that's an overstatement because a lot of
the the clinical outcomes that we're
seeing with treatment resistant PTSD,
people who've had an average diagnosis
duration of like 14 to 17 years, nothing
succeeded. They do two to three sessions
and then you see like a 50 plus%
complete remission of PTSD. I mean, what
is going on there? I think in a very
productive way leading us to question
some of the very fundamental assumptions
that are made in the world of psychiatry
particularly with pharmaceutical
interactions or pharmaceutical
prescriptions and that's really exciting
to me because
I think there is an argument to be made
that you can address certain root causes
and there are different explanations for
this ghoul Dolan who's now at UC
Berkeley she was at Johns Hopkins talks
about the reopening of critical periods
for development. So you could
potentially use psychedelics for
stroke patients who are trying to
relearn motor control. So I would say
that those are are broadly kind of the
the three pillars. There's one other
that I'm
digging into that I think could end up
being very very interesting overall.
This is one that is sort of TBD.
Personally I am experimenting with it
but Vegas nerve stimulation. There is a
sea of [__] floating around related
to Vegas nerve stimulation. The vast
majority of what you'll bump into is
pseudoscientific nonsense.
>> So, if I'd never heard about Vegas nerve
stimulation before, how would you
>> Yeah, I can explain it. [clears throat]
>> Yeah.
>> All right. So, the Vegas nerve is a bit
of a misnomer because they're actually
two bundles of nerves that travel down
from around your brain stem down either
side of the neck, kind of where you
would feel your pulse. It's right
alongside the corateed artery.
>> Mh. And you can think of them as almost
transatlantic cables. So you don't have
you have two primary vag nerves,
but there are about a 100,000 fibers in
each of them. And we only know what a
tiny fraction of those do. They then
travel down and they intervate and touch
pretty much everything you can imagine,
including your gut. And there's some
very interesting communication between
the gut microbiome and the brain. visa v
the Vegas nerve. It's wild. And the most
credible voice that I found in
the world of Vegas nerve stimulation
or VNS for short science is a guy named
Dr. Brian Tracy, T R A C Y. He wrote a
book called The Great Nerve, which is a
very good introductory read on all of
this. One of the most heavily cited
scientists of the last 30 years. He's
incredibly credible. and
he co-founded a company I want to say at
least 10 years ago or 11 years ago was
involved at least as a as a primary
scientific adviser for an implant. The
implant is about the size of a omega-3
fish oil capsule gets implanted right in
the neck. So surgical procedure but
pretty minor and that has just been
approved. It was the cover of the New
York Times a few weeks ago for
rheumatoid arthritis. And the before and
after that you see in some of these
conditions again is something straight
out of science fiction. You see someone
who's been mostly bedridden, chronic
fatigue, can't hold a job, struggling to
interact with their kids, has this
procedure, and then like two weeks later
they're running up a flight of stairs to
catch a train on a trip to Europe and
have the problem of too much energy. It
seems to have broad potential
application to autoimmune conditions. So
you might think of say a Crohn's disease
or IBS.
It seems to have applications
to
significantly enhancing HRV
heart rate variability. So I have a
friend who for the longest time he's
former tier one operator military. He's
got a lot of sympathetic overdrive. So
he had trouble sleeping and he tried
all sorts of sophisticated breathing
programs which can help. He tried cold
exposure which can help but those were
all incremental gains on his HRV maybe
improved 10 to 15% lots of meditation
twice a day 10 to 15%. Used vag nerve
stimulation for
somewhere between two and four weeks
tripled his HRV.
>> What?
>> Yeah, tripled.
>> How did he stimulate his vag nerve? Was
it like
>> this? This is where we get into some
controversial territory.
All right. So, the device he used is
it is a device. It's called Gamma Core.
It's by prescription. It is applied to
the neck. It provides
electrical stimulation for
2 minutes at a time. I believe it's very
very minimal. It's 2 minutes twice a
day. I want to say maybe it's 5 minutes
twice a day. And that seems to have just
a a downstream collection of benefits or
potential benefits. Most of the research
for gamore is for I believe migraines
andor cluster headaches in terms of
published literature or option B which
has a lot more in terms of published
studies would be uh oricuricular so ear
stimulation
uh and that's stimulating something
called the simba conscia right here this
very particular location and so you
apply stimulation to the ear I'm
experimenting with both the ear and also
the neck. I would say Vegas nerve
stimulation has top of mind
access right now for me in terms of
interest.
>> I bought this Bond Charge face mask,
this light panel for my girlfriend for
Christmas and this was my first
introduction into Bon Charge and since
then I've used their products so often.
So when they asked if they could sponsor
the show, it was my absolute privilege.
If you're not familiar with red light
therapy, it works by using near infrared
light to target your skin and body
non-invasively. And it reduces wrinkle,
scars, and blemishes and boosts collagen
production so your skin looks firmer. It
also helps your body to recover faster.
My favorite products are the red light
therapy mask, which is what I have here
in front of me, and also the infrared
sauna blanket. And because I like them
so much, I've asked Bon Charge to create
a bundle for my audience, including the
mask, the sauna blanket, and they've
agreed to do exactly that. And you can
get 30% off this bundle or 25% off
everything else sitewide when you go to
bondcharge.com/diary
and use code diary at checkout. All
products ship super fast. They come with
a one-year warranty and you can return
or exchange them if you need to. And
I'll tell you what, it scares the hell
out of me when I look over in the office
late at night and one of my team members
is sat at their desk using this product.
I asked my assistant Sophie to find me a
reliable security system for my new
place in LA. What she discovered is that
most available options have the same
issue. They're reactive and only take
action after someone has broken into
your house. Simply Safe, who sponsors
this show, has a completely different
approach. If someone's lurking near your
home or office, their AI powered cameras
detect them. Then human agents who act
like a remote security guard take
action, speaking directly to the
intruder, letting them know they're
being watched on camera, and if
necessary, triggering a siren or
spotlight to scare them off. Or they can
call 911 for police dispatch. This
immediate response is why I went with
Simply Safe. No one else approaches
Security in the same way that they have
no long-term contracts or hidden fees,
so you can cancel at any time. They also
have a 60-day money back guarantee.
Right now, my audience can save 60% on a
Simplysafe home security system at
simplysafe.com/doac.
That's simplysafe.com/doac.
To save 60% on a simplysafe home
security system, there's no safe like
Simplysafe. Before the Diary of SEO was
what it is today, it was just an idea.
And it started with me, a cheap plug-in
microphone, and my Mac right here. And I
have to say, when I first had the idea
for the Diary of a CEO, my thinking was
that the world might want to see into
the diaries of some of the most
interesting, successful people really in
high places that were doing interesting
things. So, after recording that first
episode under my duvet, I sat on my Mac,
which is from our sponsor Apple, and
spent hours editing and eventually
uploaded it. And honestly, I thought
that would probably be it. But a couple
of my friends said they enjoyed it. So,
I kept on recording. And over time, the
microphone has changed and we now have
this incredible setup here. But the
thing that has stayed the same is I'm
still using the Mac. Even today, my
entire team across our studio still uses
the Mac. Our first few episodes maybe
had tens of people listening, but now
tens of millions of people tune in all
over the world, which is still
absolutely crazy to me. So, if there is
an idea that keeps tapping you on the
shoulder, this is your sign to start.
Your great ideas start on Mac. And you
can find out more at apple.com/mack.
Because of what you do and because of
the way that you are in terms of your
broad curiosity and the way that you
think and the way that you learn, I have
to ask you the question, what is it that
you see coming down the pipe? Like
coming down the line in terms of macro
trends in it's probably makes sense for
us to just stick with health for a
second, but you've talked about Vegas
enough. Is there anything else that you
think 10 years from now everybody's
going to be doing
>> but they're not currently doing
>> or thinking about? One of them I'll
throw out there is something I've been
thinking about is air quality. I think I
see a rise in people's concern about CO2
levels and also outside air quality. So
I imagine I'll be wearing some kind of
device or my iPhone will be telling me
about the air quality in the room or
outside.
>> Yeah, that wouldn't surprise me. I think
bioelectric medicine is a big category.
So whether it's accelerated TMS or
focused ultrasound
uh where you might take something that
looks like a hockey puck and put it over
your your liver for instance or
spleen uh to affect various things. uh
using microchips over pills I think is
is is a is going to be a huge growth
area and that we'll realize more and
more how much is dependent on the immune
reflex and different types of
communication mediated by electricity uh
that can be affected by external or
internal devices like an implant. So for
instance, I'll give you a wild factoid
which is people may have heard the story
which is based on real science where you
transplant the microbiome from say obese
mice into lean mice and those lean mice
then become obese just by transplanting
m the gut microbiome.
If you sever the vagus nerve before you
do the transplant that doesn't happen.
They don't become obese. So what's
happening there? It would seem that the
microbiome is communicating with the
brain viv the vagus nerve. And when you
sever something experimentally in that
way or bladed or whatever,
often times this might seem paradoxical,
but you can achieve similar effects with
stimulation that you can with severing.
And
I think many of the assumptions that we
have currently which form the bedrock of
our quote unquote understanding of
mental illness and so on are just going
to be completely false. They're going to
be completely untenable within 10 years.
A lot of that I think is going to be
driven by a better understanding of the
body electric. It will be driven by
better understanding of
how
fuel utilization in the brain drives
many different psychiatric conditions
that can be mitigated or completely
addressed by say providing an alternate
fuel source instead of glucose ketones,
right? That would be just kind of a
simple example. But there's a huge huge
compliance issue with the ketogenic
diet, right? People don't want to do it
for [snorts] a lot of good reasons. So,
how do you get people to stick with it?
Well, maybe there are other options
for achieving ketogenic like effects
such as systemic anti-inflammation with
the use of electricity instead of diet.
Right?
I think that's possible and I've
invested in a few companies that are
aiming to do that. uh which is very
exciting because it means that you might
have options for affecting brain
function that do not require you to take
molecules that get into your brain
directly.
>> Mhm.
>> That's really exciting. So bioelectric
medicine I think is going to be a very
exciting space to watch and there are a
lot of researchers doing some wild stuff
with bioelectric medicine. [gasps]
So we'll see where it goes. Where are
you today in terms of your what's
guiding you at the moment in this season
of your life? Do you what are your big
goals? Are you are you aspiring towards
anything in particular?
>> It's relationships. It's uh looking
forward to the next big chapter for me
which would almost certainly it not
almost certainly be partner, family, all
of that. I mean another startup's not
going to make any difference to my life.
You know, another podcast. I love all
those things. I love startups. I love
the podcast. I love the books. But we're
at the
squeezing out of marginal gains at this
point.
>> Are you married or
>> I'm not married. Don't have any kids
that I'm aware of.
>> You're aware of
>> But uh dating a lovely woman right now.
Very excited about it.
>> Do you think it's quite strange that a
lot of podcasters don't seem to be like
I'm not married. Yeah.
>> And I don't have any kids yet.
>> Yeah.
>> Um I've just turned 33. But so many of
the big podcasters don't seem to have
kids or be married other than really
Rogan.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Someone tweeted about the other day. I
was like, [laughter] "Oh, fuck."
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, look, I think that
I'm not I'm not pointing fingers at you,
but I but I know quite a few of these
guys. If we're talking about guys, u I I
mean, I know a bunch of female
podcasters as well. Um quite a few of
which are married. Uh, but on the male
side, I will say, you know, if you're a
good-looking guy and you're putting
videos on YouTube,
your DM inbound and your plethora of
temptation that you need to resist is
going to make remaining single very
attractive. And [laughter]
that's true for a lot of these guys. So,
I don't think there's a mystery to be
solved. In other words, it's like if
they go on the dating apps, it's just
like shooting fish in a barrel. And
I I don't think ultimately that the
dating apps, despite what they might
say, are designed to be deleted. I do
not believe that. They are casinos
intended to keep you in the casino.
>> Yeah.
>> It's just follow the money. Follow the
subscription plans.
>> Well, you talk about the paradox of
choice.
>> Yeah. And
so there are times and I think this is
probably misplaced envy where I'm like,
you know, maybe there was something to
arranged marriages, you know, and this
whole idea of like soulmate romantic
love driving everything is a relatively
new invention.
>> Mhm.
>> On the scale of human history. Uh now
would I want someone deciding who I
marry and have kids with? Not
particularly. But there is a certain
simplicity to it that I find enviable
when you end up in the modern digital
casinos of dating apps where
yes, that person was an eight out of 10,
but man, that nine or 10 is just right
around the corner. I know it's just a
few thousand swipes away.
>> Yeah.
>> And and you get the variable reward at
least if you're like a a healthy,
sexually vigorous male.
>> [snorts]
>> I'm sure for women as well. I just think
that men tend to think with their
smaller head a lot more often. Uh you're
going to get these incredible dopamine
hits of variable reward. It's just like
dog training, but you're training
yourself with the dating app to continue
using the dating app
>> by getting these Scooby snacks in terms
of, you know, [laughter] fill in the
blank with your imagination. Uh,
I don't meet all I have not met a single
person who is like, I love dating apps.
>> No one.
>> I have not met a single person. And yet,
right, what does the crack addict want?
>> More crack. And they might say, I just
need one more hit. That's not how it
works.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> So, there is, I think, a lot to be said
for applying positive constraints,
right?
>> Scared to be single again. I just the
way I look out at the the current
mechanism of finding someone these
dating apps and I just think and also I
do understand it would be a significant
distraction from whatever I'm doing
here.
>> Oh, for sure.
>> Can you imagine me being in New York
City tonight single and like uh and
having the evening off and what what
would go through my head and and then
you'd have to go on a date with someone.
You've got to do all the small talk
stuff. I got out the game before the
game like began. Yeah.
>> Like seven years ago I the game. I saw
this this tweet from this I think it was
a Vietnamese woman who said, you know, I
wonder if it wasn't Gen X, it was like,
I wonder if X, Y, and Z people of this
generation are looking at dating apps
and thinking, wow, we got the last
chopper out of N.
>> Literally, literally.
>> And
>> oh my god,
>> that's not far from the truth. Uh,
paradox of choice is a real problem.
People think it's a quality problem of
abundance. I'm not convinced that that's
true. No way. It's not poss I have so
many clo My friends that struggle with
dating the most, date the most.
>> Yeah, sure.
>> I've got two or three friends that I can
think of. I won't name them, but two of
them are women and one of them is a guy.
They do 50 between 50 and 100 dates a
year.
>> Yeah.
>> And they're just convinced that it's
through lack of lack of option. And I
just it's impossible. But, you know,
>> yeah, I'm uh very happy to be off the
dating apps. I was on the dating apps
for 2 or 3 years and it was just
[laughter]
>> it is a part-time slash full-time job.
>> We have a a closing tradition on this
podcast where the last guest leaves a
question for the next guest not knowing
who they're leaving it for. And your you
know the person who wrote your question
sat there I kid you not for 30 minutes
in total silence thinking about these
two three four five six seven eight
words.
>> Oh wow.
>> They sat there for I've never seen
anything like it.
>> All right. and the eight words that they
wrote.
>> Oh man, [laughter]
>> I know, right?
>> That's nine words.
>> What is your favorite color today?
>> Can you imagine? [laughter]
>> Yeah. What's your favorite sandwich? No,
I'm joking. Um, how would you spend your
final day on Earth?
>> With my closest friends and family? No
doubt.
It wouldn't be pizza. It wouldn't be I
mean maybe it involves pizza, but it
would be
telling the people I love that I love
them and spending time with them.
Doesn't need to be anything fancy. Could
be sitting on a porch on a rocking
chair. And that might seem like a trit
answer, but I am putting that into
practice every year with periods of time
that are blocked out for this. So, I'm
not waiting until my last day, but last
day certainly wouldn't be dating apps.
[laughter]
wouldn't be an opium bender.
Uh it would be it would be time with my
my absolute closest friends and family.
And I'll add uh elaboration on the past
year review when I'm looking at
relationships
before investing in new relationships. I
look at my top say five to 10
relationships and ask myself did I spend
the amount of time I would want to spend
with these people last year? And if the
answer is no, I always reinvest in those
people and only the overflow
gets allocated to new relationships. I
really focus on the tried andrue proven
relationships with deep levels of trust
over long periods of time.
>> In terms of systems, you've put have you
put a system in place to make sure that
life doesn't get in the way of those
people coming together? Yeah. I mean,
for 25 plus years, I've had a
annual reunion around my birthday every
year in the summer where all of my or
those who can make it, but incredibly
old friends show up. They know it's on
the calendar. It's roughly the same date
every year. And they fly in from all
over the country, all over the world.
And it has nothing to do with my
birthday. It's just a reunion of
friends.
>> Tim, thank you. Thank you for several
reasons. I think the first reason is
you're one of the I said to you before
one of the founding fathers of what we
do here and if it wasn't for people like
yourself and Joe there is a 0% chance I
think that people like me would be doing
what we do now and that's given us so
much there's really really like a very
extremely low chance that if people like
you hadn't taken the risk and created a
blueprint and shown that it was like an
effective medium and the long form was
interesting and everything that you you
guys proved there's no chance that
people like with me would exist and So I
whenever I meet people like you that I I
consider to have to be standing on the
shoulders of on or have stolen a
blueprint on I feel like I am obliged to
say thank you because you've created but
it's true. It's true.
>> Yeah. And I was inspired also by people
who preceded me right when I did the
launch for the 4-Hour chef in 2012 with
going on Joe Rogan and Mark Marin and
Nerdist and so on. Like those guys also
showed me that something interesting was
a foot.
>> So uh you're 33 you said
>> 33.
>> Yeah. You got a lot of runway, man.
You're in a good position.
>> We'll see. We'll see what happens. I'll
add one last thing that I neglected to
mention earlier, but in terms of
productivity, and we're talking about
weekly architecture, I think everyone
should put as a challenge for
themselves,
>> particularly if they're an entrepreneur,
a 4-week mini retirement once a year
where you are unavailable. you are off
the grid. No laptop, no phone outside of
maybe Uber and Google Maps and Open
Table where [snorts] you are literally
completely unavailable. And the reason I
recommend that there are a few. Number
one, it's going to allow you to play the
long game at high intensity having that
de loing phase. The second is it will
force you to improve all of your
policies, rules, guidelines for
autonomous decision-m by employees,
etc., etc. It'll force you to clarify
all of that on a regular basis. So, when
you come back, all of those systems
improvements will endure beyond the mini
retirement, but it's a forcing function.
Mhm.
>> Uh it [clears throat] also forces you to
take a very close look at the non-b
businessiness interests that you have
either maintained or cultivated or let
atrophy in complete disuse. And if you
end up having a slight panic attack
because you don't know what to do with
your time, that's a great wakeup call.
You need some other things to offset the
type A maniacal focus on chasing that
rabbit around the greyhound drag.
>> Amen.
>> Thank you, Tim. Thanks, man. Thank you
so much.
>> If there's anything we need, it is
connection, especially in the world
we're living in today. And that is
exactly why we created these
conversation cards. Because on this
show, when I sit here with my guests and
have those deep, intimate conversations,
this remarkable thing happens time and
time again. We feel deeply connected to
each other. At the end of every episode,
the guest I'm interviewing leaves a
question for the next guest, and we've
turned them into these conversation
cards, and we've added these twist cards
to make your conversations even more
interesting. And there are so many more
twists along the way with the
conversation cards. This is the brand
new edition and for the first time ever,
I've added to the pack this gold card
which is an exclusive question from me.
But I'm only putting the gold cards in
the first run of conversation cards. So
get yours now before the limited edition
gold cards are all gone. Head to the
link in the description below.
[music]